Right now (6/01), the SDL port of cartman is still incomplete, so
you have to use the old dos version. You have to start it up in the
egoboo\cartman directory and give it the name of the module to edit.
You can only run it from dos.

>From programmer X:

Cartman Mouse...
  Right = Pick tile in the top right window
  Right = Pick tile effects in the bottom right window
  Right = Make a hill in the top left window ( Use keypad 1, 3, 7, 9 )
  Right = Move selected vertices in the top left and bottom left windows
  Left  = Drop tile in the top right window ( Holding V or T is useful )
  Left  = Set tile effects in the bottom right window
  Left  = Select vertices in the top left window ( Holding CTRL or ALT
is
useful )
  Left  = Select vertices in the bottom left window ( Use top left
window
instead )
  Middle        = Move camera ( Use M key for a 2 button mouse )

Cartman Keys...
  Cursors       = Scroll around
  Esc           = Quit
  F1            = Quit ( in case your Esc key is broken... )
  W             = Write the file ( Save )
  L             = Bad key.  Levels the walls...
  C             = Bad key.  Clears the map.  Can use at start to set
basic terrain
  G             = Good key.  Welds corner vertices together so there
aren`t holes
  Space = Weld selected vertices together
  F             = Fixes corner vertices for the tile the cursor is over
  J             = Jitter all the vertices or selected vertices, good for
outdoors ( J
G )
  M             = Move camera


  Ins           = Change the triangle mesh type
  Del           = Change the triangle mesh type
  Keypad +      = Change the tile for drawing in the top right window
  Keypad -      = Change the tile for drawing in the top right window
  Keypad 1      = Set hillsize
  Keypad 3      = Set hillsize
  Keypad 7      = Set hillsize
  Keypad 9      = Set hillsize
  P             = Make a hill in the top left window


  1             = Set random pattern for the top right window ( selected
tile )
  2             = Set random pattern for the top right window ( two
tiles )
  3             = Set random pattern for the top right window ( four
tiles )
  4             = Set random pattern for the top right window ( hi-res
tiles )
  5             = Adjust the height of selected vertices ( deep pit
level )
  6             = Adjust the height of selected vertices ( shallow pit
level )
  7             = Adjust the height of selected vertices ( raised
platform level )
  K (Hold)      = Create a light in the top right window ( do last, goes
away if
you quit )
  T (Hold)      = Good key.  No tile effect or vertex update in top
right window
  V (Hold)      = Puts new tiles at floor level in the top right window
  Z             = Set top right tiles cursor is over to the current type
( try it )
  X             = Good key.  Put borders around tiles that the cursor is
over
  Q             = Mystery key

  LShift        = Copt the tile effect to tiles like the one the cursor
is over
  R             = Set the tile effect for the bottom right window. 
Reflection
  D             = Set the tile effect for the bottom right window.  Draw
reflect
  A             = Set the tile effect for the bottom right window. 
Animated
  B             = Set the tile effect for the bottom right window. 
Barrier
  I             = Set the tile effect for the bottom right window. 
Impassable
  S             = Set the tile effect for the bottom right window. 
Slippy
  H             = Set the tile effect for the bottom right window.  Hurt
  O             = Set the tile effect for the bottom right window. 
Overlay ( water )


  U (Hold)      = Move tiles of selected type up and down.  Bottom left
window
  Y (Hold)      = Move selected vertices up and down.  Bottom left
window
  N (Hold)      = Move entire mesh up and down.  Bottom left window
  E (Hold)      = Ease everything up and down.  Bottom left window


Notes...
  Red triangle mesh means hi-res 64x64 bitmap, blue means lo-res 32x32
bitmap
  Use barriers for corner walls so arrows don`t get stopped
  Same for iron gates
  Setup animated tiles in wawalite.txt
  Look at advent.mod to see how to do reflections
  Slippy tiles are for steep cliffs and raised platforms
  Use the two-triangle tiles as much as possible
  The rightmost slider lets you set how fast the hills grow or shrink
  To make a level...
    Press C to clear the map to the basic type ( use 3F for wall tops?
 3E? )
    Draw the map, using 1 wall and 4 random floor tile types.  Map is
ugly.
    Make sure triangle mesh is correct.  Diagonals point out on corners.
    Use X over the different tile types.  Map is pretty.
  To make walls...
    Use L to make everything flat
    Use N to move everything up in the bottom left window
    Select the floor tile by right clicking in the top right window
    Use U to move the floor down in the bottom left window.  Press G.
    Use U. Press G.
    Use U. Press G.
    Use U. Press G.
    Use U. Press G.

